>>If you've not
already done so, try
to view Bruce Lipton's interview
prior to viewing this one.
These two often make their
presentations to the public
together.
Dr. Lipton's work
in cellular biology
and our body's interface with
our deepest belief systems
leads directly into
Rob Williams' work
in reprogramming our
subconscious beliefs.
These are the beliefs that
essentially run our lives.
Like the operating
system of your computer,
sometimes these beliefs
corrupt our hard drives,
created illness, a
lack of joy, and more.
Mr. Williams came from
both a business background
and a second career
as a psychoanalyst
before coming to the
realization that there
was a large piece of
the story missing.
Here he talks about that
important missing piece.
Question number one, what are
these subconscious beliefs?
Where do these
subconscious beliefs
come from-- before we
talk about how we're
going to relieve
ourselves of them--
and how do they actually affect
the programming of our bodies
as well as, obviously,
our psychology in life?
>>Sure.
Largely they come
from our childhood.
That's where, at a period
from the time you're born,
in fact prior to
when you're born--
Bruce spoke about that
aspect of in utero training.
It's kind of nature's
head start program
when you're interacting with
the world of your mother,
because you're carried for
nine months in that world,
and you can start to
pick up what reality
is going to be like when
you come out of the womb.
And then from that
moment on, the programs
continue literally for
the rest of your life.
But the ones that
really count the most
are from about that time
when you show up in the world
and take your first breath
and about six years old,
five, six years old.
That's a highly programmable
time as far as brains go.
We just take in information
as kids like little sponges.
Reality is just
everything around us.
And if the authority
figures, which in that case
usually represent your parents,
they tell you something,
you don't even question it.
In fact, you don't even have the
brain capacity to question it.
You just take it in,
assume it's true,
and start operating out of
this set of perceptions,
this reality.
And actually, in
your childhood that
may serve you very
well, especially if you
get old enough to
talk about it later,
which means you
survived your child.
So the beliefs are very
useful in childhood
but maybe not necessarily
so useful later on
when maybe you outgrow them
and your environment changes
and what you learned as a
child as survival and coping
mechanisms is now
really something that's
in your way, something
that detracts
from your life as an adult.
So most of the programs
are installed very early
in childhood.
>>And this really becomes, more
or less, a filter, as you say,
to how you view the
rest of your life
and your perceptions of
the world around you?
>>Yeah.
If you think of yourself
as a camera, as an example,
and reality is out
there and your camera's
going to take a
picture of reality,
well, if you didn't have
any filters on your camera,
you'd take a picture of exactly
what reality looked like.
But the reality is almost
no one can take that picture
without the filter part,
which is in between the camera
itself and reality.
So you see reality
through a set of filters,
and those filters I just
call belief systems.
They're things that
totally color what you see.
The notion of seeing the world
through rose-colored glasses,
it's a cliche maybe
and a metaphor,
but the reality is if you have
a set of beliefs they're just
like a prescription for glasses.
When you look out through the
world, you see not the world
itself.
You see yourself through
the world the way
you've been
programmed to see it.
So that's your reality.
>>So most of us
are really a result
of, to one degree or another,
unconscious parenting.
>>Yeah.
Well, it's as unconscious
as their parents
were and the
parents before them.
>>Exactly.
>>For people who are
thinking, gosh, my parents
are my problem, they
really messed me up,
and if only I could just now
get back at my parents, no.
It's pointless, for one thing.
And secondly, you would
have to go back all the way
to the very first cell
that ever divided,
because you can explain
why your parents got
to be the way they are if you
follow the software being,
essentially, transferred from
generation to generation.
And eventually what happens
is you end up with it.
And the big deal is
that can be stopped
at any particular
generation with what we now
know about beliefs and
how to change them.
>>And this is your specialty.
Let's talk about
you for a minute
and how you came upon
this career path that
is helping so many people now.
>>Well, I didn't start
this way, that's for sure.
Actually, I was just like most
other the people in the United
States with the family
interested in making a living
and providing for my family.
And so I did that through
the corporate world
here in the United States in
several different iterations
of that.
But the last one was in
the television business,
actually in the cable
television business.
I was general manager for
a cable television company.
It was communications,
but not exactly, I
think, what I was ultimately
trying to be interested in
and to do.
And so there was a point at
which I arrived emotionally
and spiritually where
that version of me
just didn't fit
anymore and there
was a sort of
spiritual emergence.
I had to move out
of that environment
in order to do what I
knew I was here to do.
And I didn't know
exactly what it was.
I just knew that
wasn't the endpoint.
So I had a kind of movement
out of that whole industry
into a deep need to make more
of a difference in the world.
And so I left that
corporate environment
and went into psychotherapy.
There's no logical connection
there, except for moving out
of one environment and
into something else,
birthing myself into
something that almost
felt like the opposite of
my corporate environment.
The corporate environment
really felt more
like I was a cog in a wheel,
just sort of a meaningless
was piece of machinery and that
I could be easily replaced.
And it didn't feel as a human
being that that was right,
that that's the
way we really are.
And so I moved into
this other profession.
In the process of
doing that, there
was an enormous series
of very real transitions,
very painful, difficult
times, actually.
But I can look back on that now.
I have no regrets whatsoever
about the difficulty of that
because of what I
get to do now, which
is the most precious
thing I can imagine,
and that is being partnered
with other people that
want to become the best version
of themselves that they can be.
>>And were you finding that
traditional psychotherapy
was lacking?
>>Enormously.
I went to graduate school.
Essentially, what I got
out of graduate school
was and advanced
degree in counseling.
I wished I'd gotten more of
an education in counseling.
But it turns out it was much
more of the old paradigm
than where we are now, built
much more on the process
itself was the whole business.
That was what was functional.
That's what you should do.
And one of my
professors actually
said, well, Rob, you
should be in therapy
for the rest of your life.
It's a good thing.
Just to do it.
And I, coming from a
business background,
always felt like,
well, wait a minute.
How about the results?
How about the time when
you accomplish something,
there's an endpoint, and then
you move on to something else?
There was no such point in
traditional mainstream therapy.
There was only the
continuation of this activity
called psychotherapy.
So I was at odds with myself.
I had this results-oriented
business background,
and I had a
process-oriented education.
And the reconciliation
turns out to be the work
that I do now, the
PSYCH-K work, because it
is highly
results-oriented but has
a deep sense of
profound connection
and respect for people
that I work with.
>>And the segue between the
two, as I understand it,
was this mysterious medical
artform known as kinesiology.
--call it.
>>Well, kinesiology is
just one small aspect
of PSYCH-K. Actually, it's
the communication piece.
It's the thing that links you
up to your subconscious mind,
where really all the
power and the action is.
And kinesiology
hadn't been used much
at all in the
psychological realm
but much more so if you
went to see a chiropractor
or you went to see a
nutritionist or somebody who
was using it to access
information that was more
on a physical level.
The psychological use
is quite different.
>>Explain what that piece is.
Because didn't you have
an experience with it
that you thought, hmm, this
isn't making sense, that
kind of spurred you on to
learn more about the body's
subconscious information
that it retains?
>>Well, what happened to me is
I got introduced in kinesiology
through a discipline called
educational kinesiology,
a wonderful discipline
designed, really,
to help eradicate learning
disabilities in children.
And my bent in life wasn't
just eradicating disabilities
in children, although it's
an admirable honorable goal,
but it was
psycho-spiritual growth
and accelerating that
in as many people
on the planet as possible.
And so when I saw
the kinesiology work,
I saw muscle testing work,
I was very confused by it.
I'd never seen anything
like it at all,
and I was highly skeptical.
So it took quite a while for me
to be convinced of its efficacy
that it actually could
work and it was actually
tapping into a part
of me that could make
a difference in my physiology
and my behavior and so on.
But when I finally
got to that point,
it was revelatory,
because at that point
I saw how it fit into
what I wanted to do,
in terms of accelerating
psycho-spiritual growth.
It's a communication system.
>>So just take a
moment, if you would,
to briefly explain what it
is for people who have never
heard of the word
kinesiology before we go on
to talk about how this
communication system plays
into what you do.
>>Sure.
Well, there are lots of
forms of kinesiology,
so it's not quite
as straightforward
an answer as I
suspect you'd like.
It turns out applied kinesiology
is one version of it,
and that was really the father
of all the kinesiologies
in the United States, and
that was used primarily
by chiropractors.
But out of that grew lots
of forms of kinesiology.
If you look in the
dictionary under kinesiology,
you'll find the study
of muscle movement.
Well, that's not exactly
the way it's used,
but that's the technical
description of it.
It's used, more or
less, for communication
with the subconscious mind,
with what some people call
the wisdom of the body.
And in PSYCH-K, it's used
directly with communication
with the subconscious
to find out
if beliefs that you're
holding are desirable.
People are like,
gee, most of us have
read lots of self-help books
and taken lots of training
and really got pretty much
smarter over the years,
if we've paid attention to
our lives and the lessons
that life teachers and that
other people who are teachers
teach us.
And yet somehow
what I noticed was
there's often a huge
gap between your wisdom
and what your life looks like.
>>Right.
>>And that's where the
changing of beliefs comes in.
>>Sure.
So what is kinesiology?
How does it function?
What does it look like?
>>Well, the short name for
kinesiology is muscle testing.
And that's actually a fairly
straightforward process.
It's done in lots
of different ways,
but a simple example would
be if I put my arm out
and have another person
pressing gently down on my arm
while I'm pushing up
against their pressure,
the subconscious mind has
to send an electrical signal
to my muscles set, in this
case the muscles of my left arm
here, to make sure that I
can maintain the pressure up
against the pressure going down.
Well, if I go into
conflict, as an example,
that signal is
reduced dramatically.
And when so, even with the same
amount of pressure downward,
I have no longer the ability
to resist that pressure,
so my arm goes down.
Essentially, it's setting
up a communication system
that lets you know if
an idea that you're
holding in your
mind stresses you.
You can also use
it with something
called self-referential
statements.
That's a fancy word for
things I think about myself.
So if I say my name is
Rob and somebody tests me,
as long as my subconscious
mind is aligned with that name
as being my name, I'll
maintain a strong response.
But if I try to get
away with lying,
if I say my name is
Regina and I press down,
and if I'm really
concentrating on being Regina,
you're going to see
weakness in my response
rather than strength.
Because my subconscious
mind has to do two things.
It checks its files, just
like in a computer, for name,
and the name file crashes.
And also, in this case, the
gender file would crash.
So the weak response is actually
created by a weakened signal.
Really we shouldn't
call it muscle testing.
We should call it mind testing.
>>So now let this take
us forward to beliefs
and using this as
one of the tools
that you use to reveal
the hidden beliefs that
are contained within
your entire being
and reflected through
the muscle testing.
>>Right.
Yeah.
In a way, you can
reveal the beliefs.
In PSYCH-K, it's less
about revealing the beliefs
as it is finding out
what you don't believe
without necessarily knowing
what all those beliefs are.
The easy way to find out if this
particular discipline applies
in your life is just
to look at your life.
Take a common sense
rational look and say, hmm,
what's working?
What's not working?
And that will tell
you, maybe not
in detail, what
your beliefs are.
But they'll tell where you have
life-enhancing, things that
support what you want, and
life-sabotaging beliefs
or life-limiting beliefs.
>>OK.
So take a couple of
examples that you've
had through the years that were
really profound where you had
this incongruency between
what the person thought
they believed and what their
subconscious mind was playing
out and how it was
affecting their lives.
>>Sure.
Well, simple things,
like thinking
that you're capable of
influencing your world,
saying I'm capable of
influencing my life,
or I'm a positive thinking
person, or I believe in God,
or I'm capable of standing
up in front of groups
and speaking, whatever
your belief is, whatever
your desire is, whatever
your skills or desire is,
you can formulate
a belief statement
that affirms that that's true.
It may be true
consciously, by the way.
Because there's two
levels of beliefs.
There's conscious beliefs
and subconscious beliefs.
Conscious beliefs may
actually be completely
different than your
subconscious beliefs.
In fact, that's often
the case in life.
When people find themselves
aspiring to some goal
and finding themselves
just sabotaging themselves
right and left, usually
it's because there's
a discrepancy between
their consciousness
desires and their
subconscious beliefs.
So with muscle
testing, you could
affirm anything
you'd want out loud
that would represent your goal.
We could muscle test that.
If the muscle response is
weak to your statement,
we know you have at least one,
but probably more than one,
self-sabotaging belief at
the subconscious level.
And then the PSYCH-K, which
is more than just the muscle
testing, actually
moves in to connection
with the subconscious,
offers it a variety of ways
to make that change
to internalize
the new and desirable belief,
in which case we do that.
And it generally only
takes a few minutes.
It sounds amazing, but
it's absolutely true.
>>Well, compared to a
lifetime of talk, yes,
it does sound amazing.
>>Absolutely.
Well, you know it has a lot
to do with the processing
capacity of the subconscious
compared to the conscious mind.
As an example, what we're
learning in neuroscience
is that conscious mind processes
roughly 40 bits of information
per second.
If you think of this
in computer jargon,
this'll make a little
bit of sense to you.
So 40.
Think of 40 bits of
information for a second.
Now compare that
to the subconscious
mind, 40 million bits of
information, a million to one.
In other words a million times--
>>Everything that it's sense.
>>Right.
It senses all this information.
It can also
manipulate information
a million times faster
than the conscious mind.
So no wonder it's taken
so long in the last 30,
40 years in sort of mainstream
psychotherapy operating
at the conscious
level to make changes.
For heaven's sake, we've been
looking in the wrong place.
We should have been paying
a lot more attention
to the subconscious mind,
where all the power is,
all the juice is,
and all capability
is, because it's even your
subconscious mind that
holds the beliefs that
you want to change.
So PSYCH-K is a discipline
that gives you access directly
to your subconscious mind.
You're essentially
finding out what
the readout is at that level.
And as soon as you do,
if you have beliefs
that are no longer
serving you, who you are
or who you're
becoming, those are
readily available to change.
>>Now talk about how
your beliefs then
are influencing what happens
in your body by way of dis-ease
and how you would go about
approaching that when
you have something
that is a very
seriously worrying
type of condition.
>>So you're talking about worry
as in anxiety about something?
>>No, I'm talking
physical, something
that's a significant enough
condition you're thinking,
all right, I don't want to
just take a pill for it.
I really want to approach
it from a deeper level.
How does that look?
>>Well, it looks like a field
called psychoneuroimmunology,
but I'll break
that down for you.
That's the mind/body connection.
That's where your mind
and your perception
actually turn into
biological response, chemical
response in your body.
And what this field
of study has learned--
and it's been in this country
for about 40-some years now,
so there's actually
a lot of research.
You don't see it
in the mainstream,
but there are thousands
of research projects
that have been done
showing that there's
this definite connection
between perception and biology--
and what some of that shows is
that a disease process-- let's
take cancer as an
example-- may have
a very specific personality
profile of people
who tend to get cancer.
It's not a genetic thing, as
Bruce said in his presentation,
but what it is is
a perceptual thing.
And those perceptions, remember,
are handed down generation
after generation.
That's what crosses
generational gaps is
how you perceive the world.
So cancer patients,
for instance,
one of the salient
features of cancer patients
is long-held anger and
resentment unexpressed.
So when you hold
anger in your body,
even though the anger may be
about someone else or about
some other circumstances
outside of yourself,
that's not the part that
responds to the anger.
If you hold it
inside, you're the one
that experiences what you
may wish somebody else were
experiencing, if it's somebody
you're angry at that's somehow
violated you or
betrayed you in some way
and you're angry at them.
Anger's an odd thing.
It's like drinking poison and
then waiting for somebody else
to die.
You've got to get rid of it.
And so the beauty of that
is you can actually do that.
You can change your
beliefs in a way that
allows you to express your
anger in appropriate ways
so it doesn't stay
inside you, turn
into chemistry that's what's
called an immune suppressor,
literally suppresses your
immune system's capacity
to handle the cancer
cells that are produced
all the time in
the physical body.
Cancer cells are always
in everybody's body,
but if your immune
system's working properly
it's not a problem.
When it's not, when
the system's capability
to handle those cells
is reduced sufficiently,
then opportunistic organisms
like cancer can show up.
>>So have you worked with
cases where the cancer has
been reversed by deprogramming
the subconscious mind?
Does that then deprogram
the physiological response?
>>Yes.
There is a direct correlation
between the expression
in the body and
the belief systems.
And yes, I have had experience
with cancer patients,
with people who have
tumors that went away,
people that have had
all manner of disease.
Crohn's disease is
another, supposedly
an incurable disease.
Not the case.
What's incurable is our
attitude that these things
are incurable.
That seems to be
the toughest part
is people say, well,
you can't cure this,
and then that becomes
a belief system.
And in mainstream medicine,
that's a belief system that is,
I think, inadvertently
but I'm unnecessarily
perpetrated by
authority figures.
And then people just
internalize that
and say, well, I guess if the
doctor says it's incurable,
it must be.
That's the same as
a death sentence.
>>Right.
Well, if you, say,
had belief systems
that you were born
into through family
and that you have reinforced
with your own experience
in life, it's taken a
long time for your being
to come to some of these
beliefs that have created,
for example this kind
of anger, now it's
expressing itself
in cancer, you say
that you can go in and
reprogram the subconscious
mind in minutes literally?
>>Yes.
>>How does that work?
>>Because we're not dealing with
mind in the normal Newtonian
way of thinking about it.
We've developed psychologies
around parts in my head.
There's my mother part
and my father part
and the child part and the
teenager part and all that.
We've anthropomorphized
what really is the case.
It's not a Newtonian
world in our head.
It's a quantum world.
And that quantum
world means that it's
energy we're dealing with.
You don't have little Kodak
moments stuck in your head.
You're not going to go in and
find the pictures, anymore
than you would look in a
computer and find the documents
that you see represented
as icons on your desktop.
The truth is they're
really photons
of light, energy held in
certain configurations.
Those are the memories.
And so what you do
is with kinesiology
you can access the subconscious.
You can deal directly with
it in a universal language
of connection.
You can then rewrite
the software,
just like you would a computer.
The computer doesn't care
what software is in there.
You just need to know how
to operate the computer.
PSYCH-K's like an owner's
manual for your brain.
>>So let's talk about how much
of the subconscious versus
the conscious, is it
something like 95%--
Bruce was saying something like
95% of what we think we believe
or what we actually believe
and our body is carrying is
actually subconscious then.
>>Absolutely true.
It's the most outrageous number
carefully kept as a secret.
It seems that
hardly anybody knows
this, that anywhere
from 95% to 99%
of consciousness,
our awareness is not
conscious at the
conscious level.
It's subconscious,
below the level
of your conscious awareness,
which means most of our lives
are being run on autopilot.
We're more stimulus
response machines.
Something happens
in the environment,
signals something to
us, we interpret it
based on our belief systems,
and we do it subconsciously.
And then by the
time we get around
to actually taking action and we
think that action is conscious,
it's as if you sort of
jump on the bandwagon
at the very last
minute thinking you've
determined where
you're going to go.
The determination's
already been made.
>>So with PSYCH-K,
you go in, and you're
able, through the tools
such as kinesiology,
to determine what
your actual belief
systems are within the being.
>>Correct.
>>And then you're able to
help make a shift within that.
>>Right, yes.
>>And then you're able to test
afterwards and get validation
that that shift has
actually occurred?
>>Yes.
What I love about
it is that you get
to use a physical
process like kinesiology,
an objective measure
of a subject of change.
Because you can't really see the
change going on in somebody's
mind, but you can
see the effect.
It's really not that different
than quantum physics.
They'll show you the beginning
part and an end part,
and the rest of it
is kind of a mystery.
It's all hypothesis.
We don't need to see the middle
part, what's actually going on
in the mind during the change,
because it doesn't have
anything to do with the fact
that it's going to work.
But you need to
test that it worked.
>>So the notion
that you need to be
aware of all of the factors
that have brought you down
to this point is
really not true then.
You don't have to go
over it cognitively?
>>Yeah, see, that's
the difference.
You do have to be aware,
but not cognitively.
And that's a
beautiful statement.
The part of you that has to
know what those programs are
is the subconscious part.
And by definition,
that's below the level
of your conscious awareness.
Consciously no,
most of the time you
don't need to know anything
about dragging yourself back
through your childhood and going
through who do what to whom
and who should blame or
forgive and all that stuff.
Irrelevant.
You're dealing directly
with the subconscious.
The information is
stored in files, just
like in your computer.
You don't have to read every
document before you delete it.
If you want to
change it, you may
have to edit it a little
bit, and we do that sometimes
in PSYCH-K as well.
But for the most part, all that
remains at the subconscious
level, the effect is conscious.
That's what you see in
terms of the change.
And the good news is, once
again, you're doing all of this
at 40 million bits of
information processing
power per second.
That's why you can take beliefs
that have been with you for 30,
40, 50 years and change them
in a matter of a few moments.
>>So you can go in and
make agreements or at least
determine whether or
not the subconscious is
willing to make that
agreement to shift.
Do you ever run into situations
where the subconscious simply
is not in agreement
and says do what
you like but we like
it the way it is?
>>Not quite like that.
There are times when
the subconscious
mind can't make the change.
And we haven't brought up the
subject yet of the other part
of you that's involved
with all this.
That's your superconscious
mind, your higher self,
the spiritual
component of PSYCH-K.
Yes.
And in PSYCH-K, one of
the key pieces of it
is somebody comes in and they
want to change something.
They've got some
disease process going on
or some behavioral
problem, and they say,
I don't want to be
this way anymore.
What I learned a long time to
go through a very personal, very
moving experience
that I had taught
me don't judge people
by how they show up.
Don't judge them by what
they bring in as a symptom.
Because from the
spiritual point of view,
I don't really believe that
things happen accidentally.
I think everything has
purpose and meaning, including
what looks like
disease, including
dysfunction or disability.
Oftentimes a
disability is really
an ability to do something else.
It has forced a
person into a way
of seeing life for
a way of being.
They never would have gone there
had they stayed in some sort
of "normal," quote, unquote--
>>The proverbial wake-up
call, as it were, oftentimes.
>>That's right.
And some people seem to be
born with the wake-up call.
I will tell you this story,
because this will, I think,
exemplify perhaps
what I'm getting at.
It was so profound.
I was living in the city
at the time, a large city,
and I lived near a high school.
And I was in my car, and I
had stopped at a red light,
and I'm sitting at this
red light simply waiting
for the light to change,
like you would do.
In the crosswalk
come a bunch of kids,
one adult from the area
of the high school,
and they were kids that must've
been from a special ed class.
And so they had a couple
of Down Syndrome kids.
They had a one instructor.
They had two or three
kids in wheelchairs.
And this one kid looked to
be about 15 years old or so,
and he was strapped
in the wheelchair
because he was spastic.
So he was flailing
around like this.
His body, involuntarily
the muscles were moving.
And I watched him
as he went across.
And just in my own mind, the
privacy of my own thoughts,
I looked at him and
I said in my mind,
jeez, thank you
God for not letting
me have to live like that.
And at that moment,
I swear to you,
this kid, who was going
like this, shot around
and his eyes locked
on my eyes in the car.
And in silence, as if he
were sitting in the car,
I heard in my head
don't feel sorry for me.
I chose this body.
This is my last time here.
And I immediately was--
>>You're giving me chills.
>>--just chilled.
And I said, namaste, master.
My recognition of the divinity
in him and our connection--
no longer would I
ever pity anybody
who came to see me for
any possible reason.
It was the most profound
experience and lesson
that I needed at that
time in my career.
Because when people
came in, I thought,
how unfortunate,
how bad, how this.
No, this was no accident.
And this was a being that no
longer needed the physical body
to express in reality.
It was his last time.
He was checking out.
He came in and chose
that experience
so he didn't get preoccupied
with physicality.
It was a glorious experience.
>>And talk about the notion
of that connectedness,
that unconscious
superconscious connectedness
between the two of you.
>>Yes.
Yeah.
He was a master.
That's why I said
thank you, master.
It was an acknowledgement that
at that moment I had decided
and he had decided to have
our consciousness cross paths.
Because that was a bifurcation.
That was a split point for me.
That was a learning
experience that he
could give me in that condition.
And it was so profound
and so atypical.
It wasn't somebody
I was talking to who
was disabled in a
wheelchair or something.
This was a complete
flash in my mind
with this being so clear
to give me that message.
I've never seen him before.
He disappeared.
I was on stun-- somebody
beeped behind me
to get the car to go--
because of the nature
of that experience.
But from that point
on, I was always
able to see through
the distortion
of the physical presentation
to the divinity in the people I
was working with, always
looked for the divine.
>>So this is a good
time now to talk
about the overlay of
the superconscious.
>>Yes.
The superconscious mind
in this case in PSYCH-K
provides a very, very important
protocol, if you will.
If someone comes and says,
I want to make a change,
one of the steps you
have to go through
in every PSYCH-K process
that will facilitate
this sort of change is
to ask the subconscious
if it's safe and appropriate
to make this particular change.
And there's wording
that's specific to that,
but safe and appropriate
are the two key words there.
It means you're asking the
subconscious mind this question
and using muscle testing
as a collaborative effort.
That's the way you can
get a physical response
from the superconscious.
You ask the superconscious mind
is it safe and appropriate,
meaning it will bring
this person no harm,
first and foremost.
Even if Hippocratic Oath
in medicine is do no harm.
And I believe that profoundly.
It's so important in PSYCH-K
and all of the healing work
that healers and energy
workers are doing.
And the second one
is appropriate,
meaning in the context of
your life, the big picture,
not just the small picture
of what you want right now
and the wheel squeaking
and fix it doctor and make
the symptom go away or it hurts.
This is, in the context
of your life path
and contract here
as a human being,
is this appropriate to do.
And so you're muscle testing
that for a yes or no response.
You've already set up
a communication system.
That's the kinesiology.
But once you've made
this level of linkup,
you can get a direct response
through the subconscious that
controls the muscle movement
from the superconscious that
works with the subconscious
to give you that signal,
and you can find out
whether this is even
an appropriate thing to get.
You know the cliche.
Be careful what you ask for.
You might get it.
And how many times have we
chased something, caught it,
and said, what was I thinking?
>>And going through
this, your life
may be turned upside
down for a while.
But that is only in
cooperation with what
is for your highest
good, you're saying?
>>That's correct.
It doesn't mean that
what you're going to do
is necessarily going to
be comfortable or easy,
but it does mean
it's appropriate,
and it does mean in the
[? belong pool, ?] it's safe.
So if I'm here to
learn life lessons,
if my primary goal is really
a spiritual experience
in human body form, I
want to stay on track.
I want to accelerate my personal
growth in the right direction.
I don't want to get distracted,
go down these little rivulets
and bang into walls and
have to come back and find
the river again.
I want to stay in the river,
and I want to stay in the flow.
So this first question in
the permission protocols that
PSYCH-K uses lets you
know whether this is even
a worthwhile activity or whether
you should just say, hmm--
>>Not yet.
>>--not yet or not now
or, yeah, you don't know,
but you don't do it right then.
The second level
of connection, you
get permission that's
superconscious,
commitment is subconscious.
The subconscious
mind's going to need
to carry out the actual
changing of the beliefs
necessary to make
your new belief true.
And the commitment
statement is more
like every part of this system,
meaning the mind/body system is
ready, willing, and able
to make this change now,
ready, willing, and able.
If any part, any component that,
not ready or not willing or not
able, any one of those
is not going to work,
you get to know ahead of time so
you don't waste your time going
through some meaningless
activity to make a change
and then have it not work.
So it literally
works every time,
because in the final
analysis the muscle testing
will let you know if it worked.
Because what it does is
downloads new potential
in the form of a
new belief system,
that if you choose
to actualize it
you still have free will, even
though it's maybe 1% to 5%
of the time.
The last step in almost
all PSYCH-K activities
is once the new potential is
downloaded via these processes
in engaging the
subconscious mind
and introducing a new
belief, it's volition.
You go back to your conscious
mind, and you say, OK.
So it's just like getting
software in your computer.
I get a new software package.
I put it in my computer.
A little icon shows
up on the desktop.
Now if I just sit there
and look at that icon
and say, OK, do your
stuff, go ahead, go ahead,
and it doesn't do anything
and I'm whining about it, hey,
the problem isn't
the icon, is it?
It's me.
I never clicked on the icon.
I never engaged the potential.
So in PSYCH-K, the last
step is an action step.
You put your
potential into action.
So personal
responsibility is key.
Action it is important.
But now where you used to feel
a self-sabotaging kind of energy
every time you try
to accomplish a goal,
instead of being
able to get your goal
every manner of excuse
and problem would come up,
and it just didn't
seem to work out,
now you get internal support
where there was originally
all this resistance.
>>How can a person who
isn't near a practitioner
of this type, for example, find
their way to their own answers?
Is this possible?
Is it always going
to work better
in tandem with another
human being facilitating,
or can we do this to a fair
extent even on our own?
>>You can do it on your own, and
it's best learned in a group.
In other words,
the first immersion
in the notion of what
all this is about
should be under the auspices
of a certified instructor.
And there are instructors
all over the country
and now even in Europe.
So the idea here is
learn it properly.
In that class, you'll be taught
some self-testing processes so
that you can, in fact,
do it with yourself.
But even then, my best
advice is find a friend
to share the information with
that can do the muscle testing
process with you.
It only takes a couple
minutes for a person
to learn how to
muscle test properly.
You have all the
instructions in it
from that workshops
that you take.
You'll be able to
go down these sheets
and just read right off the
sheets and do it step-by-step.
It's designed to be a
personal transformation.
We don't want to create
a situation where
you have to go find
somebody who's an expert.
There's plenty of
that out there,
and that's not
what this is about.
>>So we're basically
all walking around,
for the most part-- it's a
rare person, I would assume,
that's walking around
without these sorts
of internal conflicts going on.
And this is where
disease, this is
where our lack of peace
and harmony comes from.
And so it's really the
reprogramming of the one area
that's going to change
all of this in our lives.
Is this correct, or is that
too simplistic a statement?
>>A little too
simplistic, in the sense
you can't be sure
that one area is
connected to all other areas.
Many times that is the case.
In other words, you may
have a health issue,
but it turns out it's related
to your spiritual views,
not directly related to health.
Many systems focus
on the symptom
and pretend it's the cause.
It's almost never the cause.
Almost always the
symptom is the messenger.
The cause is you
interpreting the message.
>>Have you ever
seen examples where
people are bringing
forward something
that sounds like what
we would classically
refer to as an experience
from another place and time,
spontaneously perchance, and
it's affecting what's going on
and a belief system
held in this time?
>>Sure.
When I first got
into all this, I
didn't know PSYCH-K. PSYCH-K
didn't happen till about 1988,
and it was a series of
sort of cosmic downloads
of information.
It wasn't me sitting
down thinking it all up.
It was a series of patterns
over the course of about two
or three months that literally
showed up in my head.
I went and typed them into my
computer, and then I read them,
and then I practiced them
to find out if they worked.
And they would do no
harm and would they
be beneficial and all
that, I had no idea.
I'd never had an
experience like that.
>>A superconscious download.
>>Exactly.
And that's what it was.
In retrospect, now I
can say what it was.
At the time, I hadn't
had any of those
that I knew about or was
consciously aware of,
and at that time
I didn't know what
to do with the information.
But the point of it all
is that before PSYCH-K I
started exploring
past life therapy-- it
was very popular at the
time-- and also doing
future progressions.
I
Was doing hypnosis at the
time, so a friend of mine and I
would regress ourselves
back to whenever
and progress ourselves to,
perhaps, a version of ourselves
in the future.
And it was fascinating and very
interesting and educational.
And as far as my left
brain goes, so to speak,
the why is this and how
is it and all of that,
it was like mind
candy, very enjoyable.
But in the final analysis,
Regina, actually it
boils down to I'm here
now this version of me,
and that's connected
in both directions
simultaneously to
other versions of me.
And so when I do
the PSYCH-K work
with myself, which I do
on a fairly regular basis,
I know I'm giving a gift to
future mes and previous mes
from my point of view.
>>And it sounds like you're
giving the gift to people
so that they can
share with each other.
And I think that is perhaps
the most fabulous part of what
you're doing is to
help people to learn
to listen to their
own inner wisdom.
And it sounds like
your group of people
is doing a beautiful job in
helping facilitate people
to learn this and
share it with others.
>>It's absolutely the case.
The real gift I
get back is knowing
that other people are taking
responsibility and control
of their own lives.
They've given up what I call
the plague of powerlessness,
the notion that I
can't do anything,
I have to go find some
expert to do it for me,
that power's always
externalized.
In psychological terms, we
call it the locus of control
is externalized.
We want to re-internalize it
know, that guru means, gee,
you are you.
The guru is inside
you, and look inside.
That's the last
place most people
think to look for wisdom.
PSYCH-K is not a powerful
tool in and of itself.
It has no indigenous power.
But what it does do
and where it has power
is in introducing you
to your own power,
re-introducing you to the
power that was always there
and you've forgotten about it.
Really, at its core, on a
global transformational level,
PSYCH-K is accessing the last
frontier of freedom many of us
have, no matter what
country you live in,
and there it's the
frontier the mind.
That is not yet something that
can be legislated or imprisoned
or controlled in
any significant way.
The last bit of
freedom is to recognize
who we are as divine beings
having a human experience,
and that's where
all the power is.
If we go there and each
of us in our own way
takes responsibility for
being the best we can be,
you never have to deliberately
talk to anybody else.
You just have to be
the best you can be.
These subconscious minds
we've been talking about
and superconscious minds have
created a benevolent conspiracy
to let us out of prison, a
prison of our own making,
of our own minds, and of the
enculturation process of fear.
And that's what permeates
most of the planet right now.
Fear will not only keep you in
a prison of your own thinking,
but it will suppress
your immune system,
make you much more likely
to get diseases than before.
So the best thing we can do
is to be the best we can be,
and that's to clean up
your subconscious mind,
come into a deep knowing
and understanding
of who you are as
a divine being,
and that your
power is limitless.
Once you get that,
we're all free.
>>Anybody trying
to regulate this?
There are PSYCH-K practitioners
dotted around the United States
and Europe.
If you're interested in
working with one of them
or even becoming a
practitioner, visit his website
at the link near his name.
For a more in-depth primer on
the subject of the subconscious
mind, I think you're going
to enjoy his book, titled
"The Missing Piece
in your Life."
until next time,
thanks for watching.